---
layout: post
title: Why I made this site?
gh-repo: nolantownsend/nolantownsend.github.io
gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
tags: [first,post,purpose]
comments: true
---

The point of creating this website, and subsequent posts, is to give me motivation to enhance my programming knowledge and channel it to explore Earth Science data. I became interested in programming while working on my master’s thesis at the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque, New Mexico. The journey began with a course in MATLAB which was used for Earth Science applications. From there, I applied that (still limited) knowledge to manipulate climate datasets I used for my research. At present, the climate datasets I worked with are primarily in netCDF format; the easiest way to interact with these data types was through a programming language. MATLAB was my gateway program, as it were, but I eventually had to decide on the program/programming language I wanted to use for my research and thesis figures. After poking around online and asking about other peoples' experience, I settled on Python. I ended up spending the summer learning basics (syntax, flow control, data cleaning techniques, etc.).

I still consider myself a novice programmer overall, but after I saw what it was capable of, I was hooked. Just to reemphasize, I am not a programmer by trade, so I imagine a seasoned programmer will be able to poke holes in my code to the point it resembles swiss cheese. That said, my goal is to use this site as an excuse to get hands on experience with projects involving the Earth Sciences and continue improving my code based (including feedback from the community). I hope to motivate other folks with limited experience to try it out for themselves and see what they are capable of learning and creating in the process!

